---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---
The UbiWell Lab has undertaken a research project involving the collection of EDA (Electrodermal Activity) and HRV (Heart Rate Variability) data from numerous participants using wearable technology. As I embark on this summer research, the primary focus is to investigate the comparison between EDA and HRV based on the extensive dataset acquired by the lab. To initiate the research, I had a productive meeting with Dr. Mishra, where he provided valuable insights into the project's scope and objectives.

During the first week, my primary task was to delve into existing literature on HRV and EDA, aiming to gain a comprehensive understanding of the research conducted thus far. The objective was to explore the potential overlap and distinctions between these two measures and identify areas where HRV could serve as a sufficient indicator for specific body conditions. Furthermore, I sought to determine cases where EDA outperforms HRV, establishing it as the superior indicator. This research phase allowed me to acquire crucial knowledge about the fundamental characteristics of EDA, such as SCR (Skin Conductance Response) and SCL (Skin Conductance Level), which provide insights into sympathetic nervous system activity.

From my literature review, I discovered that both EDA and HRV are non-invasive procedures that gauge sympathetic activity, albeit in different ways. EDA primarily focuses on assessing the intensity and arousal levels of sympathetic activity, while HRV offers insights into the adaptability and flexibility of the autonomic system, specifically the balance between the parasympathetic and sympathetic systems.

Interestingly, some studies suggest that EDA demonstrates increased sensitivity to certain factors, including acute psychological stress, emotional arousal, and phasic stress response. Additionally, EDA has proven to be more effective than HRV in evaluating specific health conditions such as anxiety disorders, PTSD, emotion dysregulation, stress disorders, and pain assessment. However, it is worth noting that the literature presents contradicting evidence regarding EDA's sensitivity to depression and anxiety.

In parallel with my research, I devoted time to familiarize myself with essential Python libraries, including NumPy, Pandas, Scipy, and Matplotlib, through introductory videos. This foundational knowledge will facilitate the subsequent data processing and analysis stages of the project.

Looking ahead to the next week, my goals encompass continuing my research on the comparison between EDA and HRV, deepening my understanding of data processing techniques in Python by completing online tutorials, and exploring different methods of data collection within the field. This initial week has provided a solid foundation for the upcoming phases of the research, and I am excited to delve deeper into the analysis and interpretation of the collected clinical data.
