---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---

During week 3 of my research project, I had a crucial meeting with Dr. Mishra, which led to an important realization. I discovered that I had misunderstood the proper technique for evaluating my classification model. Instead of using the recommended approach of cross-validation, I had erroneously split my data into training and testing sets in an 80-20 ratio. Dr. Mishra clarified that this method would result in missing out on valuable data for the classification model evaluation. He advised me to revisit the assignment and rectify the details accordingly. To assist me in understanding the correct methodology, he provided access to lecture videos that covered the specific techniques required. I diligently reviewed the lecture videos, ensuring a thorough understanding of the proper evaluation process. Additionally, I briefly explored other assignments from the class to further enhance my knowledge.

Over the course of the next two days, I focused my efforts on improving my code and overall efficiency. I experimented with Jupyter Notebook, a powerful tool that proved instrumental in streamlining my workflow. Through various tests, I verified the functionality of the data retrieval process using the DataTable. Additionally, I dedicated time to enhancing my classification model, aiming for higher accuracy scores and better overall performance. To achieve this, I implemented the Leave One Out cross-validation technique to evaluate my classification model, which provided a valuable learning experience. As the week progressed, I gained a growing sense of confidence in working with machine learning models, bolstered by my continued exploration of different classification and machine learning techniques. I am determined to maintain this progress and further refine my skills in the coming weeks.

In addition to my technical progress, I also had the opportunity to meet with my mentor, Dr. Furust. He guided me on accessing additional resources and provided valuable insights into pursuing a potential career in research, particularly in the context of pursuing a Ph.D. degree. Our discussion served as an introduction to the world of being a Ph.D. student and offered me valuable guidance for transitioning into a research-focused career. Furthermore, I had the pleasure of connecting with my peers during our group meetings, fostering meaningful connections and expanding my network.

As I reflect on the achievements of week 3, I acknowledge the importance of learning from mistakes and seeking guidance when necessary. Through the correction of my evaluation methodology and the utilization of appropriate techniques, I have gained a deeper understanding of the intricacies involved in developing accurate classification models. Moving forward, I am eager to continue making progress, further honing my skills, and exploring the possibilities that lie ahead in my research journey.
