---
layout: post
title: Week 9-10
---

Over the course of the next two weeks, my primary focus shifted towards developing classification models. However, I encountered a significant bottleneck as my code execution time surpassed 10 hours, particularly with the retrieval of Empatica EDA data, which proved to be exceptionally time-consuming. In the past, my approach involved processing data and building classification models within a single file. Realizing the inefficiency, I sought guidance from Dr. Mishra to explore a more effective strategy.

Dr. Mishra recommended a two-file approach: one to process the data tables and save the results in a file, and another to execute the classification models using the saved data. This separation streamlined the process and significantly reduced the runtime. However, as I delved into the classification model execution, I encountered errors related to specific patients. The timestamps for these instances fell within the range of baseline or stress start and end times, causing issues with model performance. Recognizing the need for a solution, I approached the graduate student I was collaborating with for advice.

The grad student offered a valuable insight by suggesting that I add one hour to all time values. Implementing this adjustment addressed the issues related to the specific patients and significantly improved the robustness of the classification models. This experience underscored the importance of collaborative problem-solving and the iterative nature of refining code for optimal model performance. 
