---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---

Over the past few days, I found myself waiting for the clinical data from the graduate student, who, unfortunately, got caught up with some other commitments. In the interim, I proactively engaged with Dr. Mishra to align on the objectives for this phase of the project. Dr. Mishra emphasized the importance of focusing on both Electrodermal Activity (EDA) and Heart Rate Variability (HRV) data for Empatica and BioPac, and exclusively on HRV data for Polar. His directive was clear – he wanted us to discern when one type of reading is more effective than the other. To meet this goal, I delved into researching the nuances of data collection methodologies for each device and the significance of EDA and HRV readings.

My research spanned understanding how BioPac measure EDA and HRV, and how Polar specifically captures HRV data. Gaining insights into these intricacies was essential for formulating a comprehensive approach to analyzing the data effectively. Simultaneously, I dedicated time to enhancing my coding skills, particularly in developing classification models tailored for BioPac and Polar data. Dr. Mishra's emphasis on distinguishing the optimal conditions for each type of reading fueled my exploration into refining these models.

Towards the end of the week, I finally received the awaited clinical data. I immediately immersed myself in comprehending the dataset and began the crucial task of processing it. This phase involves cleaning, organizing, and preparing the data for the subsequent steps of feature extraction and model training. The collaboration with Dr. Mishra and the concurrent efforts in understanding the data intricacies and refining coding approaches set the stage for a productive and insightful next phase of the project.
